packages/README.md, before:

# @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table

A powerful, feature-rich, and highly customizable React data table component built with Material-UI (MUI) and TanStack Table. Perfect for building modern data-intensive applications with advanced table functionality.

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 **High Performance**: Built on TanStack Table for excellent performance with large datasets
- 🎨 **Material Design**: Beautiful UI components using MUI with consistent design system
- 📱 **Responsive**: Mobile-friendly responsive design with adaptive layouts
- 🔍 **Advanced Filtering**: Global search, column filters, and custom filter components
- 📊 **Multi-Column Sorting**: Powerful sorting with multiple columns support
- 📄 **Flexible Pagination**: Client-side and server-side pagination options
- 🎯 **Column Management**: Show/hide, resize, reorder, and pin columns
- 📤 **Data Export**: Export to CSV/Excel with progress tracking and customization
- 🖱️ **Row Selection**: Single and multi-row selection with bulk actions
- ⚡ **Virtualization**: Handle large datasets efficiently with row virtualization
- 🔄 **Server Integration**: Built-in support for server-side operations
- 🎛️ **Highly Customizable**: Extensive customization through slots and props
- 📝 **TypeScript**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- 🔌 **Extensible**: Plugin architecture with custom components and hooks

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

```bash
yarn add @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

```bash
pnpm add @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

## 🔧 Peer Dependencies

Make sure you have the following peer dependencies installed:

```bash
npm install @emotion/react @emotion/styled @mui/icons-material @mui/material @tanstack/react-table @tanstack/react-virtual react react-dom
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { DataTable } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';
import { createColumnHelper } from '@tanstack/react-table';

interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  email: string;
  status: 'active' | 'inactive';
  role: string;
}

const columnHelper = createColumnHelper<User>();

const columns = [
  columnHelper.accessor('name', {
    header: 'Name',
    size: 150,
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('email', {
    header: 'Email',
    size: 200,
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('status', {
    header: 'Status',
    cell: ({ getValue }) => (
      <Chip 
        label={getValue()} 
        color={getValue() === 'active' ? 'success' : 'default'} 
      />
    ),
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('role', {
    header: 'Role',
    size: 120,
  }),
];

const data: User[] = [
  { id: 1, name: 'John Doe', email: 'john@example.com', status: 'active', role: 'Admin' },
  { id: 2, name: 'Jane Smith', email: 'jane@example.com', status: 'inactive', role: 'User' },
  // ... more data
];

function MyDataTable() {
  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableSorting
      enableGlobalFilter
      enablePagination
      enableRowSelection
      enableColumnVisibility
      enableExport
    />
  );
}
```

## 📋 Core Props

### Basic Props

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `columns` | `DataTableColumn<T>[]` | **Required** | Column definitions array |
| `data` | `T[]` | `[]` | Array of data objects |
| `idKey` | `keyof T` | `'id'` | Unique identifier key for rows |
| `loading` | `boolean` | `false` | Loading state indicator |
| `emptyMessage` | `string` | `'No data available'` | Message when no data |

### Data Management

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `dataMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Data management mode |
| `initialLoadData` | `boolean` | `true` | Load data on component mount |
| `onFetchData` | `(filters) => Promise<{data, total}>` | - | Server-side data fetching |
| `onDataStateChange` | `(state) => void` | - | Called when table state changes |
| `totalRow` | `number` | `0` | Total rows for server-side pagination |

### Selection & Interaction

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableRowSelection` | `boolean \| ((row) => boolean)` | `false` | Enable row selection |
| `enableMultiRowSelection` | `boolean` | `true` | Allow multiple row selection |
| `onRowSelectionChange` | `(selectedRows: T[]) => void` | - | Selection change callback |
| `enableBulkActions` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable bulk actions toolbar |
| `bulkActions` | `(selectedRows: T[]) => ReactNode` | - | Custom bulk actions component |

### Pagination

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enablePagination` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable pagination |
| `paginationMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Pagination mode |
| `initialState.pagination` | `{pageIndex: number, pageSize: number}` | `{pageIndex: 0, pageSize: 50}` | Initial pagination state |

### Filtering & Search

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableGlobalFilter` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable global search |
| `enableColumnFilters` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable individual column filters |
| `filterMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Filtering mode |
| `onColumnFiltersChange` | `(filters) => void` | - | Column filters change callback |
| `extraFilter` | `ReactNode` | - | Additional filter components |

### Sorting

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableSorting` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable column sorting |
| `sortingMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Sorting mode |
| `onSortingChange` | `(sorting) => void` | - | Sorting change callback |

### Column Management

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableColumnVisibility` | `boolean` | `true` | Show/hide columns control |
| `enableColumnResizing` | `boolean` | `false` | Allow column resizing |
| `enableColumnPinning` | `boolean` | `false` | Allow column pinning |
| `draggable` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable column reordering |
| `onColumnDragEnd` | `(order: string[]) => void` | - | Column reorder callback |
| `onColumnPinningChange` | `(pinning) => void` | - | Column pinning callback |

### Export Features

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableExport` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable data export |
| `exportFilename` | `string` | `'export'` | Default export filename |
| `onExportProgress` | `(progress) => void` | - | Export progress callback |
| `onExportComplete` | `(result) => void` | - | Export completion callback |
| `onExportError` | `(error) => void` | - | Export error callback |
| `onServerExport` | `(filters) => Promise<{data, total}>` | - | Server-side export handler |

### Expandable Rows

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableExpanding` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable row expansion |
| `getRowCanExpand` | `(row) => boolean` | - | Determine if row can expand |
| `renderSubComponent` | `(row) => ReactNode` | - | Render expanded row content |

### Styling & Layout

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `tableSize` | `'small' \| 'medium'` | `'medium'` | Table size/density |
| `enableHover` | `boolean` | `true` | Row hover effects |
| `enableStripes` | `boolean` | `false` | Alternating row colors |
| `fitToScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | Fit table to container width |
| `enableStickyHeaderOrFooter` | `boolean` | `false` | Sticky header/footer |
| `maxHeight` | `string \| number` | `'400px'` | Max table height |

### Virtualization

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableVirtualization` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable row virtualization |
| `estimateRowHeight` | `number` | `52` | Estimated row height for virtualization |

### Advanced Customization

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `slots` | `Partial<DataTableSlots<T>>` | `{}` | Custom component slots |
| `slotProps` | `PartialSlotProps<T>` | `{}` | Props for slot components |
| `tableContainerProps` | `object` | `{}` | Props for table container |
| `tableProps` | `object` | `{}` | Props for table element |

## 🔥 Advanced Examples

### Server-Side Data Management

```tsx
import { DataTable } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';

function ServerSideTable() {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

  const fetchData = useCallback(async (filters) => {
    setLoading(true);
    try {
      const response = await fetch('/api/users', {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
        body: JSON.stringify(filters),
      });
      const result = await response.json();
      return { data: result.users, total: result.total };
    } finally {
      setLoading(false);
    }
  }, []);

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      dataMode="server"
      loading={loading}
      onFetchData={fetchData}
      enablePagination
      enableSorting
      enableGlobalFilter
      paginationMode="server"
      sortingMode="server"
      filterMode="server"
    />
  );
}
```

### Row Selection with Bulk Actions

```tsx
function SelectableTable() {
  const [selectedUsers, setSelectedUsers] = useState([]);

  const bulkActions = (selectedRows) => (
    <Stack direction="row" spacing={1}>
      <Button 
        variant="contained" 
        color="error"
        onClick={() => deleteUsers(selectedRows)}
      >
        Delete ({selectedRows.length})
      </Button>
      <Button 
        variant="outlined"
        onClick={() => exportUsers(selectedRows)}
      >
        Export Selected
      </Button>
    </Stack>
  );

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableRowSelection
      enableMultiRowSelection
      enableBulkActions
      bulkActions={bulkActions}
      onRowSelectionChange={setSelectedUsers}
    />
  );
}
```

### Custom Column Filters

```tsx
const columns = [
  {
    accessorKey: 'status',
    header: 'Status',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'select',
    options: [
      { value: 'active', label: 'Active' },
      { value: 'inactive', label: 'Inactive' },
      { value: 'pending', label: 'Pending' },
    ],
  },
  {
    accessorKey: 'priority',
    header: 'Priority',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'number',
  },
  {
    accessorKey: 'created',
    header: 'Created Date',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'date',
  },
];

function FilterableTable() {
  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableColumnFilters
      enableGlobalFilter
    />
  );
}
```

### Expandable Rows

```tsx
function ExpandableTable() {
  const renderSubComponent = (row) => (
    <Box p={2}>
      <Typography variant="h6">User Details</Typography>
      <Grid container spacing={2}>
        <Grid item xs={6}>
          <Typography><strong>ID:</strong> {row.original.id}</Typography>
          <Typography><strong>Email:</strong> {row.original.email}</Typography>
        </Grid>
        <Grid item xs={6}>
          <Typography><strong>Role:</strong> {row.original.role}</Typography>
          <Typography><strong>Status:</strong> {row.original.status}</Typography>
        </Grid>
      </Grid>
    </Box>
  );

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableExpanding
      getRowCanExpand={(row) => row.original.details != null}
      renderSubComponent={renderSubComponent}
    />
  );
}
```

### Column Management

```tsx
function ManageableColumnsTable() {
  const [columnOrder, setColumnOrder] = useState([]);
  const [columnPinning, setColumnPinning] = useState({ left: [], right: [] });

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableColumnVisibility
      enableColumnResizing
      enableColumnPinning
      draggable
      onColumnDragEnd={setColumnOrder}
      onColumnPinningChange={setColumnPinning}
      initialState={{
        columnOrder,
        columnPinning,
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

### Export with Progress Tracking

```tsx
function ExportableTable() {
  const [exportProgress, setExportProgress] = useState(null);

  const handleExportProgress = (progress) => {
    setExportProgress(progress);
  };

  const handleExportComplete = (result) => {
    setExportProgress(null);
    console.log('Export completed:', result);
  };

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableExport
      exportFilename="users-export"
      onExportProgress={handleExportProgress}
      onExportComplete={handleExportComplete}
      onExportError={(error) => console.error('Export failed:', error)}
    />
  );
}
```

## 🎛️ API Reference

### DataTable Component

The main component that renders the data table with all features.

```tsx
<DataTable<T>
  columns={DataTableColumn<T>[]}
  data={T[]}
  // ... other props
/>
```

### Column Definition

Columns are defined using TanStack Table's column definition format with additional properties:

```tsx
interface DataTableColumn<T> extends ColumnDef<T> {
  // Display properties
  align?: 'left' | 'center' | 'right';
  
  // Data processing
  valueGetter?: (params: { row: any; data: any }) => any;
  valueFormatter?: (params: { value: any; row: any }) => string;
  
  // Filtering
  filterable?: boolean;
  type?: 'boolean' | 'number' | 'date' | 'select' | 'text';
  options?: { label: string; value: string }[];
  
  // Export
  hideInExport?: boolean;
}
```

### useDataTableApi Hook

Access the table's imperative API:

```tsx
import { useRef } from 'react';
import { DataTable, DataTableApi } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';

function MyComponent() {
  const tableRef = useRef<DataTableApi<User>>(null);

  const handleGetData = () => {
    const allData = tableRef.current?.data.getAllData();
    console.log('All data:', allData);
  };

  return (
    <DataTable
      ref={tableRef}
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
    />
  );
}
```

## 🎨 Customization

### Slots System

Customize any part of the table using the slots system:

```tsx
const customSlots = {
  toolbar: MyCustomToolbar,
  pagination: MyCustomPagination,
  loadingRow: MyCustomLoadingRow,
  emptyRow: MyCustomEmptyRow,
};

<DataTable
  columns={columns}
  data={data}
  slots={customSlots}
  slotProps={{
    toolbar: { customProp: 'value' },
    pagination: { showFirstLastButtons: true },
  }}
/>
```

### Available Slots

- `root` - Root container
- `toolbar` - Main toolbar
- `bulkActionsToolbar` - Bulk actions toolbar
- `tableContainer` - Table container
- `table` - Table element
- `header` - Table header
- `body` - Table body
- `row` - Table row
- `cell` - Table cell
- `footer` - Table footer
- `pagination` - Pagination component
- `loadingRow` - Loading state row
- `emptyRow` - Empty state row

## 🔧 Migration Guide

### From v0.x to v1.x

Key changes in v1.0:
- Updated to latest TanStack Table v8
- Improved TypeScript support
- Enhanced slot system
- Better server-side integration

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 📄 License

MIT © [ACK Solutions](https://github.com/ack-solutions)

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table)
- 🐛 [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/issues)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/discussions)

If you find this package helpful, please consider giving it a ⭐ on [GitHub](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table)!

Commit message:

Update build config and TypeScript settings
Switched Rollup compiler from Babel to tsc, enabled TypeScript declaration and map file generation, and adjusted tsconfig for better compatibility and output. Updated package scripts and package.json metadata, and added a donation section to the README.

packages/README.md, after:

# @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table

A powerful, feature-rich, and highly customizable React data table component built with Material-UI (MUI) and TanStack Table. Perfect for building modern data-intensive applications with advanced table functionality.

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 **High Performance**: Built on TanStack Table for excellent performance with large datasets
- 🎨 **Material Design**: Beautiful UI components using MUI with consistent design system
- 📱 **Responsive**: Mobile-friendly responsive design with adaptive layouts
- 🔍 **Advanced Filtering**: Global search, column filters, and custom filter components
- 📊 **Multi-Column Sorting**: Powerful sorting with multiple columns support
- 📄 **Flexible Pagination**: Client-side and server-side pagination options
- 🎯 **Column Management**: Show/hide, resize, reorder, and pin columns
- 📤 **Data Export**: Export to CSV/Excel with progress tracking and customization
- 🖱️ **Row Selection**: Single and multi-row selection with bulk actions
- ⚡ **Virtualization**: Handle large datasets efficiently with row virtualization
- 🔄 **Server Integration**: Built-in support for server-side operations
- 🎛️ **Highly Customizable**: Extensive customization through slots and props
- 📝 **TypeScript**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- 🔌 **Extensible**: Plugin architecture with custom components and hooks

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

```bash
yarn add @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

```bash
pnpm add @ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table
```

## 🔧 Peer Dependencies

Make sure you have the following peer dependencies installed:

```bash
npm install @emotion/react @emotion/styled @mui/icons-material @mui/material @tanstack/react-table @tanstack/react-virtual react react-dom
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { DataTable } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';
import { createColumnHelper } from '@tanstack/react-table';

interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  email: string;
  status: 'active' | 'inactive';
  role: string;
}

const columnHelper = createColumnHelper<User>();

const columns = [
  columnHelper.accessor('name', {
    header: 'Name',
    size: 150,
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('email', {
    header: 'Email',
    size: 200,
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('status', {
    header: 'Status',
    cell: ({ getValue }) => (
      <Chip 
        label={getValue()} 
        color={getValue() === 'active' ? 'success' : 'default'} 
      />
    ),
  }),
  columnHelper.accessor('role', {
    header: 'Role',
    size: 120,
  }),
];

const data: User[] = [
  { id: 1, name: 'John Doe', email: 'john@example.com', status: 'active', role: 'Admin' },
  { id: 2, name: 'Jane Smith', email: 'jane@example.com', status: 'inactive', role: 'User' },
  // ... more data
];

function MyDataTable() {
  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableSorting
      enableGlobalFilter
      enablePagination
      enableRowSelection
      enableColumnVisibility
      enableExport
    />
  );
}
```

## 📋 Core Props

### Basic Props

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `columns` | `DataTableColumn<T>[]` | **Required** | Column definitions array |
| `data` | `T[]` | `[]` | Array of data objects |
| `idKey` | `keyof T` | `'id'` | Unique identifier key for rows |
| `loading` | `boolean` | `false` | Loading state indicator |
| `emptyMessage` | `string` | `'No data available'` | Message when no data |

### Data Management

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `dataMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Data management mode |
| `initialLoadData` | `boolean` | `true` | Load data on component mount |
| `onFetchData` | `(filters) => Promise<{data, total}>` | - | Server-side data fetching |
| `onDataStateChange` | `(state) => void` | - | Called when table state changes |
| `totalRow` | `number` | `0` | Total rows for server-side pagination |

### Selection & Interaction

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableRowSelection` | `boolean \| ((row) => boolean)` | `false` | Enable row selection |
| `enableMultiRowSelection` | `boolean` | `true` | Allow multiple row selection |
| `onRowSelectionChange` | `(selectedRows: T[]) => void` | - | Selection change callback |
| `enableBulkActions` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable bulk actions toolbar |
| `bulkActions` | `(selectedRows: T[]) => ReactNode` | - | Custom bulk actions component |

### Pagination

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enablePagination` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable pagination |
| `paginationMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Pagination mode |
| `initialState.pagination` | `{pageIndex: number, pageSize: number}` | `{pageIndex: 0, pageSize: 50}` | Initial pagination state |

### Filtering & Search

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableGlobalFilter` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable global search |
| `enableColumnFilters` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable individual column filters |
| `filterMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Filtering mode |
| `onColumnFiltersChange` | `(filters) => void` | - | Column filters change callback |
| `extraFilter` | `ReactNode` | - | Additional filter components |

### Sorting

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableSorting` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable column sorting |
| `sortingMode` | `'client' \| 'server'` | `'client'` | Sorting mode |
| `onSortingChange` | `(sorting) => void` | - | Sorting change callback |

### Column Management

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableColumnVisibility` | `boolean` | `true` | Show/hide columns control |
| `enableColumnResizing` | `boolean` | `false` | Allow column resizing |
| `enableColumnPinning` | `boolean` | `false` | Allow column pinning |
| `draggable` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable column reordering |
| `onColumnDragEnd` | `(order: string[]) => void` | - | Column reorder callback |
| `onColumnPinningChange` | `(pinning) => void` | - | Column pinning callback |

### Export Features

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableExport` | `boolean` | `true` | Enable data export |
| `exportFilename` | `string` | `'export'` | Default export filename |
| `onExportProgress` | `(progress) => void` | - | Export progress callback |
| `onExportComplete` | `(result) => void` | - | Export completion callback |
| `onExportError` | `(error) => void` | - | Export error callback |
| `onServerExport` | `(filters) => Promise<{data, total}>` | - | Server-side export handler |

### Expandable Rows

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableExpanding` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable row expansion |
| `getRowCanExpand` | `(row) => boolean` | - | Determine if row can expand |
| `renderSubComponent` | `(row) => ReactNode` | - | Render expanded row content |

### Styling & Layout

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `tableSize` | `'small' \| 'medium'` | `'medium'` | Table size/density |
| `enableHover` | `boolean` | `true` | Row hover effects |
| `enableStripes` | `boolean` | `false` | Alternating row colors |
| `fitToScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | Fit table to container width |
| `enableStickyHeaderOrFooter` | `boolean` | `false` | Sticky header/footer |
| `maxHeight` | `string \| number` | `'400px'` | Max table height |

### Virtualization

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `enableVirtualization` | `boolean` | `false` | Enable row virtualization |
| `estimateRowHeight` | `number` | `52` | Estimated row height for virtualization |

### Advanced Customization

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `slots` | `Partial<DataTableSlots<T>>` | `{}` | Custom component slots |
| `slotProps` | `PartialSlotProps<T>` | `{}` | Props for slot components |
| `tableContainerProps` | `object` | `{}` | Props for table container |
| `tableProps` | `object` | `{}` | Props for table element |

## 🔥 Advanced Examples

### Server-Side Data Management

```tsx
import { DataTable } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';

function ServerSideTable() {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

  const fetchData = useCallback(async (filters) => {
    setLoading(true);
    try {
      const response = await fetch('/api/users', {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
        body: JSON.stringify(filters),
      });
      const result = await response.json();
      return { data: result.users, total: result.total };
    } finally {
      setLoading(false);
    }
  }, []);

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      dataMode="server"
      loading={loading}
      onFetchData={fetchData}
      enablePagination
      enableSorting
      enableGlobalFilter
      paginationMode="server"
      sortingMode="server"
      filterMode="server"
    />
  );
}
```

### Row Selection with Bulk Actions

```tsx
function SelectableTable() {
  const [selectedUsers, setSelectedUsers] = useState([]);

  const bulkActions = (selectedRows) => (
    <Stack direction="row" spacing={1}>
      <Button 
        variant="contained" 
        color="error"
        onClick={() => deleteUsers(selectedRows)}
      >
        Delete ({selectedRows.length})
      </Button>
      <Button 
        variant="outlined"
        onClick={() => exportUsers(selectedRows)}
      >
        Export Selected
      </Button>
    </Stack>
  );

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableRowSelection
      enableMultiRowSelection
      enableBulkActions
      bulkActions={bulkActions}
      onRowSelectionChange={setSelectedUsers}
    />
  );
}
```

### Custom Column Filters

```tsx
const columns = [
  {
    accessorKey: 'status',
    header: 'Status',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'select',
    options: [
      { value: 'active', label: 'Active' },
      { value: 'inactive', label: 'Inactive' },
      { value: 'pending', label: 'Pending' },
    ],
  },
  {
    accessorKey: 'priority',
    header: 'Priority',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'number',
  },
  {
    accessorKey: 'created',
    header: 'Created Date',
    filterable: true,
    type: 'date',
  },
];

function FilterableTable() {
  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableColumnFilters
      enableGlobalFilter
    />
  );
}
```

### Expandable Rows

```tsx
function ExpandableTable() {
  const renderSubComponent = (row) => (
    <Box p={2}>
      <Typography variant="h6">User Details</Typography>
      <Grid container spacing={2}>
        <Grid item xs={6}>
          <Typography><strong>ID:</strong> {row.original.id}</Typography>
          <Typography><strong>Email:</strong> {row.original.email}</Typography>
        </Grid>
        <Grid item xs={6}>
          <Typography><strong>Role:</strong> {row.original.role}</Typography>
          <Typography><strong>Status:</strong> {row.original.status}</Typography>
        </Grid>
      </Grid>
    </Box>
  );

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableExpanding
      getRowCanExpand={(row) => row.original.details != null}
      renderSubComponent={renderSubComponent}
    />
  );
}
```

### Column Management

```tsx
function ManageableColumnsTable() {
  const [columnOrder, setColumnOrder] = useState([]);
  const [columnPinning, setColumnPinning] = useState({ left: [], right: [] });

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableColumnVisibility
      enableColumnResizing
      enableColumnPinning
      draggable
      onColumnDragEnd={setColumnOrder}
      onColumnPinningChange={setColumnPinning}
      initialState={{
        columnOrder,
        columnPinning,
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

### Export with Progress Tracking

```tsx
function ExportableTable() {
  const [exportProgress, setExportProgress] = useState(null);

  const handleExportProgress = (progress) => {
    setExportProgress(progress);
  };

  const handleExportComplete = (result) => {
    setExportProgress(null);
    console.log('Export completed:', result);
  };

  return (
    <DataTable
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
      enableExport
      exportFilename="users-export"
      onExportProgress={handleExportProgress}
      onExportComplete={handleExportComplete}
      onExportError={(error) => console.error('Export failed:', error)}
    />
  );
}
```

## 🎛️ API Reference

### DataTable Component

The main component that renders the data table with all features.

```tsx
<DataTable<T>
  columns={DataTableColumn<T>[]}
  data={T[]}
  // ... other props
/>
```

### Column Definition

Columns are defined using TanStack Table's column definition format with additional properties:

```tsx
interface DataTableColumn<T> extends ColumnDef<T> {
  // Display properties
  align?: 'left' | 'center' | 'right';
  
  // Data processing
  valueGetter?: (params: { row: any; data: any }) => any;
  valueFormatter?: (params: { value: any; row: any }) => string;
  
  // Filtering
  filterable?: boolean;
  type?: 'boolean' | 'number' | 'date' | 'select' | 'text';
  options?: { label: string; value: string }[];
  
  // Export
  hideInExport?: boolean;
}
```

### useDataTableApi Hook

Access the table's imperative API:

```tsx
import { useRef } from 'react';
import { DataTable, DataTableApi } from '@ackplus/react-tanstack-data-table';

function MyComponent() {
  const tableRef = useRef<DataTableApi<User>>(null);

  const handleGetData = () => {
    const allData = tableRef.current?.data.getAllData();
    console.log('All data:', allData);
  };

  return (
    <DataTable
      ref={tableRef}
      columns={columns}
      data={data}
    />
  );
}
```

## 🎨 Customization

### Slots System

Customize any part of the table using the slots system:

```tsx
const customSlots = {
  toolbar: MyCustomToolbar,
  pagination: MyCustomPagination,
  loadingRow: MyCustomLoadingRow,
  emptyRow: MyCustomEmptyRow,
};

<DataTable
  columns={columns}
  data={data}
  slots={customSlots}
  slotProps={{
    toolbar: { customProp: 'value' },
    pagination: { showFirstLastButtons: true },
  }}
/>
```

### Available Slots

- `root` - Root container
- `toolbar` - Main toolbar
- `bulkActionsToolbar` - Bulk actions toolbar
- `tableContainer` - Table container
- `table` - Table element
- `header` - Table header
- `body` - Table body
- `row` - Table row
- `cell` - Table cell
- `footer` - Table footer
- `pagination` - Pagination component
- `loadingRow` - Loading state row
- `emptyRow` - Empty state row

## 🔧 Migration Guide

### From v0.x to v1.x

Key changes in v1.0:
- Updated to latest TanStack Table v8
- Improved TypeScript support
- Enhanced slot system
- Better server-side integration

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 💖 Support the Project

If you find this package helpful and want to support its development, consider making a donation:

<div align="center">

[![PayPal](https://img.shields.io/badge/PayPal-00457C?style=for-the-badge&logo=paypal&logoColor=white)](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/my/profile)
[![Razorpay](https://img.shields.io/badge/Razorpay-02042B?style=for-the-badge&logo=razorpay&logoColor=white)](https://razorpay.me/@ackplus)

**[💳 PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/my/profile)** • **[💳 Razorpay](https://razorpay.me/@ackplus)**

</div>

Your support helps us:
- 🛠️ Maintain and improve the library
- 🐛 Fix bugs and add new features
- 📚 Create better documentation
- 🚀 Keep the project active and up-to-date

## 📄 License

MIT © [ACK Solutions](https://github.com/ack-solutions)

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table)
- 🐛 [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/issues)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table/discussions)

If you find this package helpful, please consider giving it a ⭐ on [GitHub](https://github.com/ack-solutions/react-tanstack-data-table)!
